== Installation ==

Go in "File > User Preferences..." open the Add-ons tab at the bottom click on "Install Add-on from File...".
Import the whole .zip. In the search bar search AssetGen and enable it. Don't forget to click on "Save User Settings".


== Introduction ==

AssetGen is an addon that automates the tasks to get a game assets ready for video games from an High Poly model.
This tool is very useful to generate all your static meshes. For meshes that have to be deformed like character you should use your own LP.
Also sometimes the addon doesn't work very well on models with a lot of tiny parts, you must adjust your high poly by keeping the decimation in mind to use the addon. Even if you use your own low poly you can still use this addon to bake the maps and generate your textures. AssetGen provide tools to help you generate your albedo map, everything will be explained here.

What AssetGen does for you automatically:
- you have access to surface details to add micro details on your high poly's shader like rock effect, wood, etc. The details will be visible on your textures.
- the addon generates your low poly including all your LODs at the desired polycount. It will try to remove every intersecting meshes to improve the low poly quality and UV's texels.
- it will unfold your UVs, it can unfold half or your low poly for symmetrical models. You can set the cage, edge padding, etc. The best settings are set by default.
- it will bake all your textures, you can choose which texture to bake. The most important are enabled by default. You can choose the texture resolution.
- it will save your texture to allow to continue your work later. It will use the name you have entered for your asset and will add the _LOD# suffix for each.
- it creates a Blender Render shader and nodes for Blender Cycles and create the lighting to see what the low poly looks like directly after it is generated.
- it helps you to create your albedo texture by providing settings to generate a grayscale texture (amount of curvature, AO, shadows). It includes tools to help you create gradients from Presets (color picked from real world) to Custom gradient (pick a cold color for dark values and warm for bright values) and it can use an ID map to apply the gradient on certain parts. When the albedo is generated it opens the compositor, does the node setup for you, then the Albedo is automatically saved and the texture in Blender is refreshed to directly show you the new texture in the viewport.
- you can add texture effects like dust deposition and grunge very easily and can adjust the amount and color.

The addon also provides a set of tool like making a tileable texture, creating the silhouette of a weapon and more.

== How to use it ==

Note: overing the mouse on a setting displays a dialog box that explain you how the tool works.

You need an high poly mesh. You can select several high poly they will be joined for the low poly. Don't worry your high polys wont be touched, you will keep them separated with their names and modifiers.

Important note: your high poly must be in layer 0 when generating the script. Also the script will delete everything in the layer 1 (this layer is used to display your low poly and to bake).

Texture resolution:
The first setting is the texture resolution, they are indicated in square (1K = 1024*1024). To work with it i suggest to use at least a resolution of 2K (2048*2048). Modern games use this resolution too to display their textures.

LODs polycount:
The second setting bellow is very important, it is the LODs' polycount in triangles. The LOD0 is the game asset that will be displayed at a close range from the camera. Each new LOD is the model shown further from the camera. You can keep the other LODs at 0 triangle to not generate them.
You have to test and see how the asset looks, if it's too deformed you can increase the polycount. If a lot of details are captured you could try to reduce the polycount and see how it looks to optimize your game. Generating a game asset takes in average 10 seconds with an 1K texture (ideal to tests) and 1 minute in 2K.

Bellow you have access to the Advanced settings and Texture settings. Their default settings should work with most assets.

Advanced settings:
Those options will allow to have more control for the baking and textures. By default the settings works on almost all assets.
The settings are:
- cage size: this option increase the size of the low poly during the baking to capture every details. A value too high could generate intersections in concave shapes resulting on black spots. 